How do we estimate these
n-gram probabilities?
Let's look at bigram probabilities.
The maximum likelihood estimate for
a bigram probability, the probability of
a word i given the previous word i
minus 1, we just estimate by counting.
We count how many times did word i
minus 1 and i occur together, and
divide it by how many times
word i minus 1 occurs.
So it's like saying, of all the times
that we saw word i minus 1,
how many times was it followed by word i?
And we'll use the notation count sometimes
and sometimes for simplification,
we'll just refer to a c,
we'll use c for count.
So the joint count of word i minus 1 and
i divided by the count of word i minus 1.
So let's walk through an example.
So we have again our equation, the
probability of word i given word i minus
1 is, the maximum likely estimate is just,
I'll write mle,
estimated by the maximum likelihood
estimator, as this count over this count.
And let's make up a corpus, so here's our
simple corpus borrowed from Dr. Seuss.
So we have three sentences,
each one starts with a special token,
start of sentence and ends with
a special token, end of sentence.
And they're very short sentences,
I am Sam, Sam I am,
I do not like green eggs and ham.
And let's compute some language model
probabilities from this small corpus.
So first, probability of i
given the start symbol, so
that's computed as count of start symbol,
comma i,
make that big I,
over count of start symbol.
So I follows the start symbol twice,
one, two,
and the start symbol occurs three times,
one, two, three.
So that probability is two-thirds or
0.67, so
that's the probability of I given start.
And you can see examples of lots of
different probabilities here, so for
example, let's just pick
another one at random.
The probability of Sam, given the word am,
how many times does am, Sam occur.
It occurs once.
So that's one.
And the denominator is how
many times does am occur.
And that occurs twice.
So that's going to be 1 over 2.
So there's our probability
of Sam given am and so on.
So let's look at a larger corpus in
order to get some more realistic counts.
And the corpus that we're using here
was collected from a dialog system
that answered questions about restaurants
in the city of Berkeley, California.
And here's the kind of sentences
that were in this corpus.
Can you tell me about any good
Cantonese restaurants close by or
mid-priced Thai food is what I'm looking
for, tell me about Chez Panisse.
All right, here's some sentences,
and let's compute some anagrams
based on these sentences.
So first, let's start with the raw
bigram counts from this small corpus of
just under 10,000 sentences.
So what I'm showing you here
is a bigram count table.
So here's the word i is followed
by the word i five times.
The word i is followed by
the word want 827 times.
The word want is followed
by the word to 608 times.
The word to is followed by
the word eat 686 times.
And we've just put some
sample words up here.
I picked I want to eat Chinese food
lunch spend just to show you some
words that might occur together in
a sentence and some other words.
And you can see, a lot of these words,
a lot of these probabilities, are zeros,
a lot of these counts, I'm sorry,
are zeros, because it just happened
in this small data set that want
was never followed by want.
So that's this 0 here or Chinese was
never followed by the word to here, okay.
So in order to turn these
counts into probabilities,
all we have to do is
normalize by a unigram count.
Because remember,
the probability of a word i given the word
i minus 1 is the count of word i minus 1
word i over the count of word i minus 1.
So we need to divide these join counts
of the two words by the count of
the previous word.
Here's the unigram counts we're going to
need to compute those probabilities.
So here's the count of i, it's 2533.
Here's the count of eat, it's 746.
And using the equation,
we can now compute the bigram probability.
The probability for
example, of to given want,
how likely given that the previous word
was want that the next word is to.
And it's pretty likely, for example, 0.66.
But notice that things with counts
of 0 still have probabilities of 0,
lots of things have zeros here.
So now that we've computed all
of our bigram probabilities,
we can now estimate the probability
of a sentence, that's our goal for
language modeling, simply by multiplying
together all the component probabilities.
So the probability of start of sentence,
I want English food,
end of sentence is the probability of
I given start times the probability
of want given I times the probability of
English given want, food given english,
start given food, and so on.
What kinds of knowledge are expressed
by these bigram probabilities?
Why, for example, is the probability of
English given want lower than
the probability of Chinese given want?
Well, probably that's because
Chinese food is more popular and
more people are going to ask about it.
And so wanting Chinese is more
likely than wanting English.
So that's a fact about the world,
it's a fact about cuisines, not so
much a fact about English.
What about the probability of
to given want being so high?
Now, that's a fact about grammar,
that's a fact that the verb want in
English requires an infinitive after it.
So want has infinitives, and that's
a grammatical fact, so that's grammar.
And what about the probability that
want given that the previous word is
spend is 0?
So that 0 seems to be caused
by grammatical facts,
spend want is two verbs in a row.
That kind of verb doesn't seem to be
grammatically possible in English.
So that 0 is caused by
a grammatical disallowing.
How about this 0?
Why is the probably of
food following to 0?
Now, here, this 0 is a contingent 0.
You could imagine a sentence
that has to food in it.
I'd like you to stop and
think about a sentence like that yourself.
Good, it just happens that such a sentence
never occurred in the training data.
So this is a contingent 0,
where this is a structural 0.
All right, let's move on.
In practice,
we don't keep these probabilities
in the form of probabilities.
In fact, we keep them in
the form of log probabilities.
And there are two reasons for this.
One is, we can avoid underflow.
If you think about it,
if you have a very long sentence and
you're multiplying together 20 or
30 or 40 little tiny probabilities,
each of which is a very small number
less than zero, when you multiply so
many small numbers,
you get a very small number that often
ends up with arithmetic
underflow in the computation.
And so
we want to avoid this kind of underflow,
and it turns out that adding is
faster than multiplying anyway.
So again,
instead of multiplying four probabilities,
we'll in general just add
four log probabilities.
And we're going to store our
language models in logs.
There are a number of publicly
available language modeling toolkits.
One of them, SRILM.
And so you can download SRILM.
Another publicly available resource
is the Google N-Gram Release.
So this has been out for
over five years now.
Google released a trillion word corpus,
over a trillion five-grams,
and 13 million unique words.
So a huge data set which you
can download and use for
any kind of n-gram applications
you'd like to use.
So here's an example, some of the data
from the Google N-Gram Release.
Some four-gram counts for
four-grams beginning with serve as the and
words beginning with I am, so
this is a very big corpus.
And you can see that serve as
the indication occurred 72 times on this
web corpus.
And you have more information
on the Google web corpus there.
Another publicly available corpus
is the Google Book N-gram corpus,
let's look at that.
So this corpus lets you plot
counts of words in Google Books.
And a number of corpora are available for
American English,
British English, Chinese, French, and
German, and various kinds of corpora
which can all be downloaded.